# Algorithms

Each file in this folder holds an algorithm that tries to find a solution: a set of routes. 

This guide will show you how to run each algorithm. 


### Genetic

To run this algorithm, use command-line argument `-a genetic`. 

The population size is set to 50, and it will create up to 10 generations. This because testing showed that almost no improvement happens after the 10th generation. This algorithm is, unfortunately, quite time consuming, so the above parameters return a reasonable solution. 

### Greedy

Call this algorithm via the command-line argument `-a greedy`. 

This algorithm finds the shortest path between critical stations. It does not look at non-critical stations. This algorithm can be used to generate a starting point for the hillclimber and simulated annealing algorithms (see below). 

### Hillclimber

To run this algorithm, use command-line argument `-a hillclimber`. 

This hillclimber algorithm is almost two algorithms in disguise. Two different iterations are implemented. 

- Route iteration: This iteration swaps an entire route for a new route. This new route may be empty. 
- Connection iteration: This iteration changes the beginning or ending of a route. 

Which iteration should be ran can be specified via the following command-line arguments:

- `--route` [INTEGER]: Specifies the amount of route iterations that will be performed. Default is 10000. 
- `--connection` [INTEGER]: Specifies the amount of connection iterations. Default is 0. 

We chose to set the default of this hillclimber to 10000 route iterations because testing showed that this yields the best results. 

Using the `--start` command-line argument allows for a different starting point, namely a solution generated by one of the other algorithms. The options are:

- `1`: Start with a greedy-generated solution. 
- `2`: Start with a random solution. 

Default is an empty solution. 

### Random

To run this algorithm, use command-line argument `-a random`. 

This algorithm generates a random solution. By default, this algorithm is run 500 times, but you can specify the amount of times it will run via the command-line argument `-t` or `--times` followed by an integer. 

The number of trains this algorithm uses is also random. 

### Simulated Annealing

To run this algorithm, use command-line argument `-a annealing`. 

Just like the hillclimber, this simulated annealing algorithm allows for the route iteration or the connection iteration. 

Which iteration should be ran can be specified via the following command-line arguments:

- `--route` [INTEGER]: Specifies the amount of route iterations that will be performed. Default is 0. 
- `--connection` [INTEGER]: Specifies the amount of connection iterations. Default is 10000. 

We chose to set the default of this simulated annealing to 10000 connection iterations because testing showed that this yields the best results. 

It is possible to run both these iterations one after another, starting with the route iteration. However, we don't encourage this as there is only one temperature that is fitted to one iteration. 

Using the `--start` command-line argument allows for a different starting point, namely a solution generated by one of the other algorithms. The options are:

- `1`: Start with a greedy-generated solution. 
- `2`: Start with a random solution. 

Default is an empty solution. 

To specify which cooling function to use, the command-line argument `--cooling` can be used. Options are: 

- 0: A linear cooling function 
- 1: A sigmoid cooling function
- 2: A sawteeth cooling function. 
- 3: A logistic cooling function. 
- 
Default is a linear cooling function.

The temperature of the algorithm can be specified via the `--temp` command-line argument.

________________
 
Just to be clear: The only command-line argument that you *need* to specify is which algorithm to run, the rest are all optional. 